---
title: CrowdNewsroom
external_url: https://crowdnewsroom.org
teaser: An award-winning platform to provide crowd-based investigations for correctiv.org
ordering: 3
---

**since 2018:** The CrowdNewsroom development is taken over by the [CORRECTIV
nerds](https://correctiv.org/nerds) lead by [Anne-Lise
Bouyer](https://twitter.com/annelisebouyer).

This page describes the prototypes of this software I created before.

**CrowdNewsroom** aims to be a platform to provide distributed,
non-document-based investigations. The software allows registered users to
enter non-structured data to specific topics and questions. They can upload
source files to prove their contributions. A fact-checking procedure allows
editors to confirm or refuse the data gathered by the crowd.

It was used at correctiv.org for a crowd-driven [investigation for savings
banks](https://correctiv.org/recherchen/sparkassen/) in cooperation with the
[Frankfurter Allgemeine
Zeitung](http://www.faz.net/aktuell/finanzen/sparkassen-check/).

![example for a user submission form](/img/projects/crowdnewsroom/sparkassen.png)

Another investigation with this toolbox took place in early 2017 in Dortmund,
Germany. Together with the [RuhrNachrichten](http://ruhrnachrichten.de) we did
an investigation about public schools. [Pupils, their parents and teachers
collected data about cancelled lessons](http://unterrichtsausfall-check.de).

The software itself consists of different tools and apps that can be combined
independently. It's written in [python](https://python.org) and powered by [the
django framework](https://djangoproject.com).

The **CrowdNewsroom** won (among another project from correctiv.org) the german
["Reporterpreis" in category
innovation.](http://www.reporter-forum.de/index.php?id=229) and was shortlisted
for ["Ernst-Schneider-Preis
2016"](http://ernst-schneider-preis.de/shortlist-ernst-schneider-preis-2016/)
with the sparkassen investigation. This investigation also won the ["PSD
Journalistenpreis"](https://www.psd-bank.de/Spezialseiten/News.c381/d12.html).

![example for a user submission form](/img/projects/crowdnewsroom/unterrichtsausfall.png)
